##simplecovid##
**Imports, cleans, correlates and plots Covid-19 case/test, death, and hospitalization data at U.S. and State level**
In this project I did research aggregating and analyzing mortality data for the U.S. aggregate as well as individual states. Source data is from The CDC, U.S. Census Bureau, federal and state Departments of Public Health, and three GitHub repositories for daily covid-19 data:  The Covid Tracking Project, Johns Hopkins School of Engineering, and The New York Times.
This is a work-in-progress personal project to provide helpful analysis of the pandemic. I recently completed two Data Science certificate programs at Emory University but truthfully needed hands-on projects when Covid-19 became my perfect storm for boat-building.  I have posted on Google Blogger about what I've learned: https://theanalyticsofvalue.blogspot.com/
My goal is to provide context through the use of ratios, rates of change, and contextual maps.  This is one of three or four python apps I have built, I separate them based on the level of data which they use (e.g. State vs. County level) and the type of plotting/mapping they produce (this app produces mainly time-series charts, while mapdemo produces various choropleth maps). 
**Notes and concerns regarding covid-19 data**. the work done by contributors to the data repositories from The New York Times, Covid Tracking Project, and Johns Hopkins University has been tremendous, and my comments here are simply to point out gaps in local or state reporting processes as well as the need to have jurisdictions with reporting responsibility abide by clear rules for state transitions.  Data quality has gone up steadily since I started working with these data sets 8 months ago, and sometimes it takes something like this pandemic to identify gaps and issues and bring about improved accuracy and transparency.  
Tests, cases, hospitalizations, and deaths each need to conform to a set of rules.  For example, calculating a daily positive test rate requires the count of (unique) people who tested positive divided by the count of (unique) people tested in that period, although since the number of people with multiple tests in any 24 hour period is likely very low relative to the overall number of tests, the raw counts provide a close-enough proxy.  Some states now provide this distinction between positive tests and number of people who tested positive.
    Cases and Hopsitalizations sometimes do not seem to abide by clear state-transition rules.  For example, some states accurately update counts of recovered versus active cases, others do not.  Having an explicit and agreed rule for when an active case becomes a recovered case would help.  With hospitalizations, it is common for current hospitalizations to be reported but that does not tells us the number of new admissions vs. the number discharged/deceased, which would be much more useful.  We could derive current hospitalizations given admisions and discharges, but not vice versa.
    Among the four major data elements of tests, cases, hospitalizations and deaths, the most issues surround deaths and the likelihood of significant undercounts.  First, people who died at home or another non-hospital location are often not tested post-mortem for covid-19. Second, there are deaths caused indirectly by Covid-19. particularly with the elderly due to disruption of normal care, schedules, and/or medications.  A third cause of undercounting covid-19 deaths is not recording it as either the primary or secondary cause on the certificate of death.  These aren't necessarily intentional, they can be due to not performing a covid-19 test in the process of completing an examination of death or due simply to the M.E. choosing to identify another primary and secondary cause of death.

It has taken me a few attempts and much refactoring to arrive at my design approach for python apps.  The basic flow is I have a process which runs my raw file pre-processing, my imports and wrangling, and derived calculations and correlations.  At this point I have a set of Pandas Dataframes which I can pass to the functions which plot and/or map the data.  I can also then go interactive with the python console and analyze and plot the data from the dataframes.  This gives me a happy medium between automation and interaction, which Python facilitates.  I built these scripts using Pycharm which I find to be a very productive environment and one in which I can do heads-down, traditional coding or do the more interactive, jupyter-style Python stuff.
